update DO cookbook (#2060)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/cookbooks/digitalocean_droplet.md

# Deploy a Meilisearch instance on DigitalOcean

> ## Deploy Meilisearch on a DigitalOcean Droplet

Reviewer: This heading repeats the page title, only without mentioning instance. Do we need to keep it? If yes, can we change the wording so it doesn't feel like the user is reading the same thing twice?

Author: I think we should. This page has two sections, the first is on deploying the droplet, and the next is on configuring it. Maybe I should rename the page to avoid duplication.

![Selecting "Droplets" from the "Create" dropdown](/digitalocean/create.png)

### 2. Select a region for your Droplet

Select the region where you want to deploy your Droplet. Remember, the closer you are to your users, the better their search experience with Meilisearch will be.

![Selecting the London data center region](/digitalocean/select-region.png)

### 3. Select Meilisearch image

By default, DigitalOcean displays the "OS" tab. Select the "Marketplace" tab, search for "Meilisearch", and select the image.

![Search results for 'Meilisearch' in Marketplace](/digitalocean/marketplace.png)

### 4. Choose Droplet size

This is where you choose the amount of RAM, storage, and CPU cores your Droplet will have. Select your plan based on your needs. Memory-optimized options will give you better results when working with big datasets.

![Selecting the plan based on your usage](/digitalocean/select-plan.png)

### 5. Choose an authentication method

You can either use SSH keys or a password to access your Droplet. We recommend using SSH keys as they are more secure.

![Selecting SSH keys for authentication](/digitalocean/add-ssh-key.png)

> Select the existing keys you want to add to your Droplet. If you don't have any existing keys, [follow DigitalOcean's instructions on how to create one](https://www.digitalocean.com/docs/droplets/how-to/add-ssh-keys/to-account/).

Reviewer: Re-reading this made me think it was a bit weird to say "having/selecting existing keys"—you cannot select or have a non-existing key.

```suggestion
Select the SSH keys you want to add to your Droplet. If you don't have a key, [follow DigitalOcean's instructions on how to create one](https://www.digitalocean.com/docs/droplets/how-to/add-ssh-keys/to-account/).
```

### 6. Choose your Droplet name and tags

Here you can select the name that will be visible everywhere in your DigitalOcean account. Droplets can only contain alphanumeric characters, dashes, and periods.

![Adding 'meilisearch-droplet-name' as the hostname](/digitalocean/droplet-name.png)

Tags are great for managing resources. They are custom labels you assign to droplets. Tags can contain letters, numbers, colons, dashes, and underscores. You can use multiple tags for a single resource. Try naming tags based on a droplet's function.

![The search bar, meilisearch, and search-team tags](/digitalocean/add-tags.png)

### 7. Click on "Create Droplet"

![The "Create Droplet" button](/digitalocean/create-droplet.png)

### 8. Test Meilisearch

> Once created, click on the droplet's public IP address to copy it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once created, click on the Droplet's public IP address to copy it:
```

![Adding 'meilisearch-droplet-name' as the hostname](/digitalocean/droplet-name.png)

Tags are great for managing resources. They are custom labels you assign to droplets. Tags can contain letters, numbers, colons, dashes, and underscores. You can use multiple tags for a single resource. Try naming tags based on a droplet's function.

![The search bar, meilisearch, and search-team tags](/digitalocean/add-tags.png)

### 7. Click on "Create Droplet"

![The "Create Droplet" button](/digitalocean/create-droplet.png)

### 8. Meilisearch is running (in **development** environment)

Instance creation in progress...

![Progress bar for the meilisearch-droplet-name instance](/digitalocean/creating-droplet.png)

... done!

![meilisearch-droplet-name instance created successfully](/digitalocean/created-droplet.png)

### 9. Test Meilisearch

To copy the public IP address, click on it:

![meilisearch-droplet-name instance's IP: 165.227.56.77](/digitalocean/copy-ip.png)

Paste it into your browser. If you can access the search preview, Meilisearch is ready!

![Meilisearch search preview](/digitalocean/test-meili.png)

## Configure production settings in your Meilisearch droplet

> To configure Meilisearch in **production** on a DigitalOcean droplet, [establish an SSH connection with your droplet](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/how-to/connect-with-ssh/) and a script will guide you through the process. Or you can use the [Droplet Console](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/how-to/connect-with-console/) in your preferred browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure Meilisearch for **production** on a DigitalOcean Droplet, [use SSH to access your Droplet](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/how-to/connect-with-ssh/) and a script will guide you through the process. Alternatively, use the [Droplet Console](https://docs.digitalocean.com/products/droplets/how-to/connect-with-console/) with your preferred browser.
```

> ### 1. Make your domain name point to your droplet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Make your domain name point to your Droplet
```

> If you want to use your own domain name (or sub-domain), click the "Create" button and select "Domain/DNS".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use your own domain, click the "Create" button and select "Domain/DNS".
```

![Selecting Domain/DNS from the Create menu](/digitalocean/domain.png)

Type in your domain name in the "Enter domain field" and click "Add Domain".

![Domains tab on the Networking page](/digitalocean/add-domain.png)

> This should work out of the box. Your domain name should now be linked to your Meilisearch instance. You can now do a health check to verify that your instance is running and your DNS is configured:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This should work out of the box. Your domain name should now be linked to your Meilisearch instance. Use `curl` to access it and verify DNS has been properly configured:
```

> The server should answer with a `200 OK` status code and the following body `{"status": "available"}` as shown in the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server should answer with a `200 OK` status code and the following body `{"status": "available"}`:
```

```bash
…
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
…
{"status": "available"}
…
```

### 2. Set master key and SSL (HTTPS)

Meilisearch is currently running in a **development** environment. We haven't set up a master key, meaning anyone can read/write to the Meilisearch instance. Since we aren't using HTTPS yet, this configuration is unsafe for **production**.

> To start the configuration process, either connect to your droplet via SSH or use the Droplet Console in your preferred browser and follow the instructions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start the configuration process, either connect to your Droplet via SSH or use the Droplet Console in your preferred browser and follow the instructions:
```

The server should answer with a `200 OK` status code and the following body `{"status": "available"}` as shown in the example below:

```bash
…
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
…
{"status": "available"}
…
```

> 
> **Enjoy**!

Reviewer: Recently updated company policy dictates users should **not** be encouraged to enjoy themselves.

```suggestion

```
